A major breakthrough on
hostage negotiations.
Israel's war cabinet is meeting right now
on a deal with Hamas
to free about 50 of the 237 people
being held captive.
It's been 45 days since hostages,
mostly innocent
civilians, were taken by Hamas
on the Jewish
Sabbath, taken during an attack on Israel
when terrorists raped women
and murdered families.
More than a thousand people that day.
For each
spare that fate and instead taken hostage
the unknown and the wait is excruciating
for their families.
Now we are told an announcement of a deal
that will allow
some of those hostages to come home
could be imminent.
President Biden
addressed that moment ago.
We're now very close, very close,
and could bring
some of these hostages home very soon.
But I don't want to get into
the details of change
because nothing is done until it's done.
And we have more to say.
We will. But things are looking good.
CNN is covering the
story from all angles.
Oren Liebermann is in Tel Aviv.
M.J.
Lee is here in Washington
at the White House.
M.J., I want to start with you.
That was pretty remarkable.
Moment from the president
of the United States
to lean that far into where he thinks
that this negotiation is right now.
Yeah, that's right.
You heard the president saying
that we are very close to a deal.
And that very much echoes
what sources have been telling CNN
all morning,
that the US, Israel
and Hamas are on the cusp
of announcing this deal
and it could come as early as today.
I was in the room
when the president made those remarks,
and I did try to ask him at the end
how many Americans he believes
may be among the 50 hostages
initially released.
And he said, I'll have plenty of time
to talk about the hostages,
but not now, basically
declining to go into any of the details.
And I'll let Orrin speak
to the details of sort of the contours
of this potential deal.
But at least for the Biden
administration, this,
of course, Dana,
has been an urgent priority
trying to get these hostages out,
because they have said all along
that they believe
there are at least a handful
of American citizens in the mix
in Gaza being held by Hamas.
And now what U.S.
officials are saying
is that they are hopeful
that three year
old American citizen Abigail
Alden will be among the 50 hostages
that are initially released.
She is the youngest
known American hostage.
Her parents were killed by Hamas.
So this is a very tenuous situation,
but hopefully we are.
U.S.
officials are saying this three year
old American
toddler will be in the mix
of the 50 hostages.
We have, of course, and seen U.S.
officials working around the clock
to try to secure this deal.
Over the last few weeks.
The president, of course,
has been on the phone
with Prime Minister Netanyahu,
the emir of Qatar, the president of Egypt
and other top U.S.
officials have been traveling
in the region as well.
But, Dana,
it's important to underscore,
if this deal were to come to fruition,
this is not only significant
because of the release of hostages,
but because this would mark
the first sustained pause in fighting
and the first major escalatory step
that Israel will be taking really
since the war first began.
M.J.
thank you so much for that reporting.
And let's get more specific
about what sources are telling us.
This deal
may include the release of 50
women and children
And in exchange,
there would be a four or five day
pause in fighting, as M.J.
just alluded to.
Now, three
Palestinian prisoners
would be swapped
for each civilian Israeli hostage
or other hostage being released by Hamas.
Israel would stop flying
surveillance drones over Gaza
for at least 6 hours each day.
Oren, I'm
going to go to you
now about what is happening
in Israel as we speak.
That government is meeting.
What are you hearing about
how that meeting is going
and whether or not they
will approve this deal?
So this
is all
part of a legal and political process
that is required to approve such a deal
and that is required
for a critical part of this,
and that is to approve
the release of Palestinian prisoners
women and children.
So the first part of that is the war
cabinet is meeting,
and that's a very small group of people,
including Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu,
that will lead straight
into a meeting of the security cabinet.
Again, that's a slightly larger group.
And then the full cabinet itself,
that is the government.
And it needs to be approved
that each one of those stages
for this deal to go through.
Now, that's critical
because two partners
in Netanyahu's governing coalition
to far right partners,
I should say,
have already put out a statement
saying they will oppose this deal.
And that could, of course, scuttle it.
And if they want it to go to the extreme,
they could theoretically topple
Netanyahu's government.
But having spoken
to one of the families of the hostages
a short time ago,
they say they received an assurance
from one of the other critical members
of Netanyahu's government
that if this deal is put forward,
it will get approved.
And that gives them
a critical bit of confidence
that having gotten to this point
where we see the process in Israel begin
to approve a hostage deal
in an exchange
and an agreement with Hamas
that would see them free
Israeli and other hostages potentially
that it will get over the line.
And that's what they're looking to now.
And that's important
because these families
have heard the word imminent
before and have heard reports and rumors
that something is about to happen.
But if you speak with them,
they believe there's something
far more tangible here,
something far more powerful, palpable
and real
even if they haven't gotten
an official word
from the government at this point.
Now, these three votes in meetings
that are expected tonight
are not the end of the process.
There is then a 24 hour window
in which
there can be appeals
that the Supreme Court
filed against this.
That, too, will take its time
as that runs its course.
But from the indications
we're seeing here, the government,
Netanyahu feeling
confident as this moves forward
through the evening.
And we will certainly keep
you posted, Dana,
as it moves into the subsequent meetings.
So that's the process which is important.
The politics there
obviously are critically important.
And now let's talk about the people,
the people who are being held.
Do we know anything
about the condition of these hostages
all of them,
but even specifically,
the women and children on that list of 50
who are hopefully going to be released?
The answer is we simply don't.
We know
so little about the nearly 240 hostages
held in Gaza.
And that has been an incredible source
of frustration.
In fact,
a little information we do know
has only come out
from the Israeli military
when it says it has found the bodies
of two Israeli hostages killed in Gaza
and brought them out.
There were several hostages released
very early on, but that was weeks ago,
if not more than a month
ago, in terms of
who is coming out,
the 50 women and children.
We know at this point
almost nothing except that little bit.
On the on the flip side of that.
We also don't know anything about the 150
Palestinian women and children
who are set to be released
as part of this exchange.
So in terms of the details
of how
this plays out, really the
the nitty gritty of this,
we are still waiting for that.
And, of course,
the families of the hostages
still waiting to find out
if their loved ones are on that list
or and
thank you so much for that reporting.
And this potential breakthrough
in these hostage
negotiations
comes a day
after the families of hostages met
in Israel with that war cabinet there,
emotional calls to bring the hostages
home.
That's what happened in those meetings.
Now, we heard
similar emotion
from one of the family members of a
young girl
that MJ was talking about, Abigael Adan.
She she's three years old.
She's being held in Gaza.
This is her great aunt
speaking to CNN this morning.
These people have been in the
dark for 45 days.
Abigail is a beautiful child
who wants to run around and play soccer
with her older brother and sister.
And she hasn't
been able to run around in 45 days.
I don't know where she is. We don't know.
She should be home with her family
and with her sister and brother.
And she isn't right now.
I'm not a politician. I'm not a diplomat.
I will believe it when I see them
walk out to be driven out.
And they are free.